Bluejacking and Bluesnarfing
Due to the limited range of Bluetooth, an attacker must be within range of their target. Here are some ways that they can exploit a target’s device without their knowledge.



Bluejacking uses wireless Bluetooth technology to send unauthorized messages or shocking images to another Bluetooth device.

Bluesnarfing occurs when an attacker copies information, such as emails and contact lists, from a target’s device using a Bluetooth connection.

Cross-Site Scripting
Cross-site scripting (XSS) is a common vulnerability found in many web applications. This is how it works:

Cybercriminals exploit the XSS vulnerability by injecting scripts containing malicious code into a web page.
The web page is accessed by the victim, and the malicious scripts unknowingly pass to their browser. 
The malicious script can access any cookies, session tokens or other sensitive information about the user, which is sent back to the cybercriminal.
Armed with this information, the cybercriminal can impersonate the user.
An attacker icon sends an email to a victim on a laptop. An arrow extends from the victim's laptop to a website icon which links back to the attacker icon.
1.5.3 Code Injection
Most modern websites use a database, such as a Structured Query Language (SQL) or an Extensible Markup Language (XML) database, to store and manage data. Injection attacks seek to exploit weaknesses in these databases.

Buffer Overflow
Buffers are memory areas allocated to an application. A buffer overflow occurs when data is written beyond the limits of a buffer. By changing data beyond the boundaries of a buffer, the application can access memory allocated to other processes. This can lead to a system crash or data compromise, or provide escalation of privileges.

These memory flaws can also give attackers complete control over a target’s device. For example, an attacker can change the instructions of a vulnerable application while the program is loading in memory and, as a result, can install malware and access the internal network from the infected device.
