Threats to the Local Area Network
The local area network (LAN) is a collection of devices, typically in the same geographic area, connected by cables (wired) or airwaves (wireless).

Because users can access an organization’s systems, applications and data from the LAN domain, it is critical that it has strong security and stringent access controls.

Select the image to reveal some common threats posed to the LAN.



touch_app
Examples of threats to the LAN include:

Unauthorized access to wiring closets, data centers and computer rooms.
Unauthorized access to systems, applications and data.
Network operating system or software vulnerabilities and updates.
Rogue users gaining unauthorized access to wireless networks.
Exploits of data in transit.
Having LAN servers with different hardware or operating systems makes managing and troubleshooting them more difficult.
Unauthorized network probing and port scanning.
Misconfigured firewalls.
 


replay
1.1.11 Threats to the Private Cloud
A cloud in the centre of four icons: a desktop, a router with a wireless signal, a server and a laptop
The private cloud domain includes any private servers, resources and IT infrastructure available to members of a single organization via the Internet. While many organizations feel that their data is safer in a private cloud, this domain still poses significant security threats, including:

Unauthorized network probing and port scanning.
Unauthorized access to resources.
Router, firewall or network device operating system or software vulnerabilities.
Router, firewall or network device configuration errors.
Remote users accessing an organization’s infrastructure and downloading sensitive data.
1.1.12 Threats to the Public Cloud
Where a private cloud domain hosts computing resources for a single organization, the public cloud domain is the entirety of computing services hosted by a cloud, service or Internet provider that are available to the public and shared across organizations.

There are three models of public cloud services that organizations may choose to use.


A smartphoneA serverA desktop and modem
chevron_right
Software as a Service (SaaS)
This is a subscription-based model that provides organizations with software that is centrally hosted and accessed by users via a web browser, app or other software. In other words, this is software not stored locally but in the cloud
