 Layer 2 Attacks
Layer 2 refers to the data link layer in the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) data communication model.

This layer is used to move data across a linked physical network. IP addresses are mapped to each physical device address (also known as media access control (MAC) address) on the network, using a procedure called address resolution protocol (ARP). 

In its simplest terms, the MAC address identifies the intended receiver of an IP address sent over the network, and ARP resolves IP addresses to MAC addresses for transmitting data. 

Attackers often take advantage of vulnerabilities in this layer 2 security.



Spoofing
Spoofing, or poisoning, is a type of impersonation attack that takes advantage of a trusted relationship between two systems.

MAC address spoofing occurs when an attacker disguises their device as a valid one on the network and can therefore bypass the authentication process. 
ARP spoofing sends spoofed ARP messages across a LAN. This links an attacker’s MAC address to the IP address of an authorized device on the network.
IP spoofing sends IP packets from a spoofed source address in order to disguise it.
An arrow from a hacker icon labeled spoof points to a cloud icon. An arrow from a person icon labeled real  points to another cloud icon. An upward facing arrow joins the spoofed cloud icon to the real cloud icon which then feeds into a router with a wireless signal. This is labeled destination.
A server is joined to four desktop icons and a laptop icon with a skull and crossbones on the screen
MAC Flooding
Devices on a network are connected via a network switch by using packet switching to receive and forward data to the destination device. MAC flooding compromises the data transmitted to a device. An attacker floods the network with fake MAC addresses, compromising the security of the network switch.

 Man-in-the-Middle and Man-in-the-Mobile Attacks
Attackers can intercept or modify communications between two devices to steal information from or to impersonate one of the devices.

Select the images to find out more about these types of attacks.



touch_app
Man-in-the-Middle (MitM)
A MitM attack happens when a cybercriminal takes control of a device without the user’s knowledge. With this level of access, an attacker can intercept, manipulate and relay false information between the sender and the intended destination.




ttackers can intercept or modify communications between two devices to steal information from or to impersonate one of the devices.






Man-in-the-Middle (MitM)
A MitM attack happens when a cybercriminal takes control of a device without the user’s knowledge. With this level of access, an attacker can intercept, manipulate and relay false information between the sender and the intended destination.

 






Man-in-the-Mobile (MitMo)
A variation of man-in-the-middle, MitMo is a type of attack used to take control over a user’s mobile device. When infected, the mobile device is instructed to exfiltrate user-sensitive information and send it to the attackers.

ZeuS is one example of a malware package with MitMo capabilities. It allows attackers to quietly capture two-step verification SMS messages sent to users.

