Networks Are Targets
Networks are routinely under attack. It is common to read in the news about yet another network that has been compromised. A quick internet search for network attacks will return many articles about network attacks, including news about organizations which have been compromised, the latest threats to network security, tools to mitigate attacks, and more.


Reasons for Network Security
Network security relates directly to an organization's business continuity. Network security breaches can disrupt e-commerce, cause the loss of business data, threaten people’s privacy, and compromise the integrity of information. These breaches can result in lost revenue for corporations, theft of intellectual property, lawsuits, and can even threaten public safety.

Maintaining a secure network ensures the safety of network users and protects commercial interests. Keeping a network secure requires vigilance on the part of an organization’s network security professionals. They must constantly be aware of new and evolving threats and attacks to networks, and vulnerabilities of devices and applications.

Many tools are available to help network administrators adapt, develop, and implement threat mitigation techniques. For instance, the Cisco Talos Intelligence Group website, shown in the figure, provides comprehensive security and threat intelligence to defend customers and protect their assets


Vectors of Network Attacks
External and Internal Threats
An attack vector is a path by which a threat actor can gain access to a server, host, or network. Attack vectors originate from inside or outside the corporate network, as shown in the figure. For example, threat actors may target a network through the internet, to disrupt network operations and create a denial of service (DoS) attack.

A DoS attack occurs when a network device or application is incapacitated and no longer capable of supporting requests from legitimate users.

An internal user, such as an employee, can accidentally or intentionally:

Steal and copy confidential data to removable media, email, messaging software, and other media.
Compromise internal servers or network infrastructure devices.
Disconnect a critical network connection and cause a network outage.
Connect an infected USB drive into a corporate computer system.
Internal threats have the potential to cause greater damage than external threats because internal users have direct access to the building and its infrastructure devices. Employees may also have knowledge of the corporate network, its resources, and its confidential data.

Network security professionals must implement tools and apply techniques for mitigating both external and internal threats.


Data Loss
Data is likely to be an organization’s most valuable asset. Organizational data can include research and development data, sales data, financial data, human resource and legal data, employee data, contractor data, and customer data.

Data loss, or data exfiltration, is when data is intentionally or unintentionally lost, stolen, or leaked to the outside world. The data loss can result in:

Brand damage and loss of reputation
Loss of competitive advantage
Loss of customers
Loss of revenue
Litigation/legal action that results in fines and civil penalties
Significant cost and effort to notify affected parties and recover from the breach
Network security professionals must protect the organization’s data. Various Data Loss Prevention (DLP) controls must be implemented that combine strategic, operational, and tactical measures.
