Spam
Spam, also known as junk mail, is simply unsolicited email. In most cases, it is a method of advertising. However, a lot of spam is sent in bulk by computers infected by viruses or worms — and often contains malicious links, malware or deceptive content that aims to trick recipients into disclosing sensitive information, such as a social security number or bank account information.

Almost all email providers filter spam, but it still consumes bandwidth. And even if you have security features implemented, some spam might still get through to you. Look out for the following indicators of spam:

The email has no subject line.
The email asks you to update your account details.
The email text contains misspelled words or strange punctuation.
Links within the email are long and/or cryptic.
The email looks like correspondence from a legitimate business, but there are tiny differences — or it contains information that does not seem relevant to you.
The email asks you to open an attachment, often urgently.
If you receive an email that contains one or more of these indicators, you should not open the email or any attachments. Many organizations have an email policy that requires employees to report receipt of this type of email to their cybersecurity team for further investigation. If in doubt, always report. 


Phishing


Phishing is a form of fraudulent activity often used to steal personal information.

Phishing occurs when a user is contacted by email or instant message — or in any other way — by someone masquerading as a legitimate person or organization. The intent is to trick the recipient into installing malware on their device or into sharing personal information, such as login credentials or financial information.

Select the images to find out more.



touch_app
Phishing
Phishing occurs when a user is contacted by email or instant message — or in any other way — by someone masquerading as a legitimate person or organization. The intent is to trick the recipient into installing malware on their device or into sharing personal information, such as login credentials or financial information.

For example, you receive an email congratulating you for winning a prize. It looks like it was sent from a well-known retail store and asks you to click on a link to claim your prize. This link may in fact redirect you to a fake site that asks you to enter your personal details, or it may even install a virus on your device.



Spear phishing
A highly targeted attack, spear phishing sends customized emails to a specific person based on information the attacker knows about them — which could be their interests, preferences, activities and work projects.

For example, a cybercriminal discovers through their research that you are looking to buy a specific model of car. The cybercriminal joins a car discussion forum you are a member of, forges a car sale offering and sends you an email that contains a link to see pictures of the car. When you click on the link, you unknowingly
