Grayware and SMiShing
Grayware is any unwanted application that behaves in an annoying or undesirable manner. And while grayware may not carry any recognizable malware, it may still pose a risk to the user by, for example, tracking your location or delivering unwanted advertising.

Authors of grayware typically maintain legitimacy by including these ‘gray’ capabilities in the small print of the software license agreement. This factor poses a growing threat to mobile security in particular, as many smartphone users install mobile apps without really considering this small print. 

Short message service phishing or SMiShing is another tactic used by attackers to trick you. Fake text messages prompt you to visit a malicious website or call a fraudulent phone number, which may result in malware being downloaded onto your device or personal information being shared. 

A hand holding a smartphone that shows an incoming call from someone represented by a theatre mask icon.


1.4.3 Rogue Access Points
A rogue access point is a wireless access point installed on a secure network without explicit authorization. Although it could potentially be set up by a well-intentioned employee looking for a better wireless connection, it also presents an opportunity for attackers looking to gain access to an organization’s network.

An attacker will often use social engineering tactics to gain physical access to an organization’s network infrastructure and install the rogue access point

Deauthentication

Also known as a criminal’s access point, the access point can be set up as a MitM device to capture your login information.

This works by disconnecting the rogue access point, which triggers the network to send a deauthentication frame to disassociate the access point. This process is then exploited by spoofing your MAC address and sending a deauthentication data transmission to the wireless access point.


An evil twin attack describes a situation where the attacker’s access point is set up to look like a better connection option. Once you connect to the evil access point, the attacker can analyze your network traffic and execute MitM attacks.


Radio Frequency Jamming
Wireless signals are susceptible to electromagnetic interference (EMI), radio frequency interference (RFI) and even lightning strikes or noise from fluorescent lights.

Attackers can take advantage of this fact by deliberately jamming the transmission of a radio or satellite station to prevent a wireless signal from reaching the receiving station.


Attacks Against Wi-Fi Protocols
Wired equivalent privacy (WEP) and Wi-Fi protected access (WPA) are security protocols that were designed to secure wireless networks that are vulnerable to attacks.

WEP was developed to provide data transmitted over a wireless local area network (WLAN) with a level of protection comparable to what is usually expected of a traditional wired network. It added security to wireless networks by encrypting the data.

WEP used a key for encryption. The problem, however, was that WEP had no provision for key management and so the number of people sharing the same key continually grew, giving criminals access to a large amount of traffic data. Furthermore, WEP’s initialization vector (IV), one of the key components of its encryption key, was too small, readable and static.

To address this and replace WEP, WPA and then WPA2 were developed as improved security protocols. Unlike with WEP, an attacker cannot recover WPA2’s encryption key by observing network traffic. However, they can still use a packet sniffer to analyze the packets going between an access point and a legitimate user.

In order to successfully jam the signal, the frequency, modulation and power of the RF jammer needs to be equal to that of the device that the attacker is seeking to disrupt.
